Client-Server
 
1. Tell us about the features of client/server.

- A client is a machine or program that we use to make requests through the web.

- A server is a program that listens for our requests and resonds to them.

- The client-server model is a centralised web arcitecture that classify computers into two sections, requesters and response providers.


2. What is a Web server in a client server environment?

Can be referred to as a computer system or software of that computer system that processes requests via HTTP. 


3. What is the role of the presentation layer ?

Encoding/Decoding
Data Compression
Encryption/Decryption 


4. They say this architecture is secure, how is it done in your opinion?

Http alone is vunerable, because of easy read text. Secure http is known as https, this uses a diferrent port by default and 
works by adding an additional security layer in the network protocol stack a SSL/TLS between the application and transport layer.
So before any message leaves the client it has been encrypted.

Trust is built on the server serving a certificate to the client to validate the server, this is done
using public key cryptography and the existence CAA's. However letsencrypt is a service that lets anyone just obtain
one of these certificates as long as they own the domain, and can be used as a malicous confidence enchancement.

Https can facilitate a strict-transport-security prolicy known as HSTS lets a website tell browsers that it should only be accessed using HTTPS,
instead of HTTP. However it can only do this once the website has returned the strict-transport-security header, 
this happens from the initial request, which by default is http. This now can become subject to a man in the middle attack.
That is the first time you access the website you are not protected by HSTS. So a TOFU mentalitly is applied.
Preleoading is used as an additional method of protection to combat this, this is where the site is added to an internal list,
so that the can never be an attempt to connect to it just using http.


5. What is a Database Server in a client server environment?
A server that uses a database application, that provides database services to clients, 
which are users or other programs.


6. What are Super servers in client server environments ?

Services are performed by so-called daemons. A daemon is a program that opens a certain port, and waits for incoming connections. 
If one occurs, it creates a child process which accepts the connection, while the parent continues to listen for further requests.

This concept has the drawback that for every service offered, a daemon has to run that listens on the port for a connection to occur, 
which generally means a waste of system resources. So almost all installations have super servers that create sockets for a number of
services, and listens on all of them simultaneously. When a remote host requests one of the services, the super-server notices this and 
connects the server specified for this port.


7. Explain 2-Tier and 3-Tier architecture

2-tier is just client and server with no intermediary, the server holds both the application and data layer on one machine, 
and the presentation layer the client is on another.

3-tier is when the application layer is put on a seperate server to the server storing the data layer 
and placed in between the machine that stores the presentation layer (The client) and the server that stores
the data layer.




8. What is a File server?
A machine on a network that provides files on demand.
 

