Introduction to API
 
Explain REST and RESTFUL ?

REST stands for Representational State Transfer. It’s an architectural pattern described through constraints 
for creating web services.
A RESTful service is one that implements that pattern.

Mention what are the HTTP methods supported by REST ?

GET
PUT
DELETE
POST
HEAD
PATCH

Explain the architectural style for creating web API ?

Generally, Web API has 3 layers, which are given below.
Web API Layer
Business Layer 
Repository Layer 


Explain the RESTFul Web Service ?

Web services based on REST Architecture are known as RESTful web services. These webservices uses HTTP methods 
to implement the concept of REST architecture. A RESTful web service usually defines a URI, Uniform Resource Identifier
a service, provides resource representation such as JSON and set of HTTP Methods. The web services are completely stateless. 


Explain what is a “Resource” in REST?

REST architecture treats every content as a resource. These resources can be Text Files, Html Pages, Images, Videos or Dynamic
Business Data. REST Server simply provides access to resources and REST client accesses and modifies the resources. Here each
resource is identified by URIs. REST uses various representations to represent a resource where Text, JSON, XML. The most 
popular representations of resources are XML and JSON.



Which protocol is used by RESTful web services?

RESTful web services use web protocol HTTP.


What is messaging in RESTful web services?

A client sends a message in form of a HTTP Request and the server responds in the form of an HTTP Response. This technique 
is Messaging. These messages contain message data and metadata.



State the core components of an HTTP Request?

A correctly composed HTTP request contains the following elements:
A request line.
A series of HTTP headers, or header fields.
A message body, if needed.

The request line is the first line in the request message. It consists of at least three items
Method
Path
Http version

Each HTTP header is followed by a carriage return line feed an additional CRLF is used, and then any message body begins.



State the core components of an HTTP response?

An HTTP response contains:
A status line.
A series of HTTP headers, or header fields.
A message body, which is usually needed.


The status line is the first line in the response message. It consists of three items:
Http version number
Status code
A reason phrase

The HTTP headers for a server's response contain information that a client can use to find out more about the response.

For a response to a successful request, the message body contains either the resource requested by the client, or some 
information about the status of the action requested by the client. For a response to an unsuccessful request, 
the message body might provide further information about the reasons for the error.




What do you understand about payload in RESTFul web service ?

payload is referring to a Http message response body.


Explain the caching mechanism ?

A cache is a storage area that is closer to the entity needing it than the original source. 
Accessing this cache is typically faster than accessing the data from its original source. 
A cache is typically stored in memory or on disk. A memory cache is normally faster to read from 
than a disk cache, but a memory cache typically does not survive system restarts. Caching of data may occur at
many different levels within the architecure of a system.


List the main differences between SOAP and REST?

SOAP relies exclusively on XML
SOAP requires more bandwith
SOAP cannot be cached


Enlist advantages and disadvantages of ‘Statelessness’ 

The advantages that maintaining parties don't have the responsibility of managing the resident memory.

The disadvantage they will not keep information about a particular user session.


