HTML Fundamentals
 
What are the basic Features of HTTP?
HTTP is connectionless
HTTP is media independent
HTTP is stateless


What are request methods in HTTP?
The request method indicates the method to be performed on the resource identified by the given Request-URI.

What are the differences between GET and POST methods ?

GET is safe (cannot change content) reload is okay vs POST is unsafe (can change content) reload is not okay
GET is less secure
GET can be cached


What is status code in HTTP ?
The Status-Code is an element in a server response, which is a 3-digit integer where the first digit of the 
Status-Code defines the class of response and the last two digits do not have any categorisation role.

What are the header fields in HTTP?
HTTP header fields provide required information about the request or response, or about the object sent in the 
message body. There are four types of HTTP message headers
General-header
Client Request-header
Server Response-header
Entity-header

What is URI?
A Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) is a string of characters that unambiguously identifies a particular resource.

What are Idempotent methods and why do we call them ?
Idempotency is important in building a fault-tolerant API. Suppose a client wants to update a resource through POST. 
Since POST is not a idempotent method, calling it multiple times can result in wrong updates. What would happen if you 
sent out the POST request to the server, but you get a timeout. Is the resource actually updated? Does the timeout happened 
during sending the request to the server, or the response to the client? Can we safely retry again, or do we need to figure 
out first what has happened with the resource? By using idempotent methods, we do not have to answer this question, but we 
can safely resend the GET request until we actually get a response back from the server.

Explain HTTP Request & Response Messages
A web browser, for example, may be the client and an application running on a computer hosting a website may be the server.
The client submits an HTTP request message to the server. The server, which provides resources such as HTML files and other 
content, or performs other functions on behalf of the client, returns a response message to the client. The response contains
completion status information about the request and may also contain requested content in its message body.


What is Session State in HTTP ?

A session is a logical construct that establishes persistence (or stateful behavior) across page views. Each session is 
assigned a unique identifier. The browser uses this identifier (or session ID) to store and retrieve an 
application's working set of data (or session state) before and after each page view.

All modern web applications generate a "session ID" and pass it along as a cookie. This enables the application to find 
the session on the server even after the connection from which the session was created is closed. Through this exchange of 
session IDs, state is maintained even for a stateless protocol like HTTP. 


What is HTTPS ?

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is an extension of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). It is used for 
secure communication over a computer network.
